# Need of Automation?
> Accomplish processes that is difficult to do manually
- IT automation tools allow you to do a wide variety of things that simply can’t be done manually. For example, provisioning and deploying environments manually can be time-consuming and requires highly skilled, hands-on knowledge.

<br/>

> Control your delivery chain while maintaining compliance
- By adopting a CI/CD pipeline that applies automation throughout your application life cycle—including integration, testing, delivery and deployment—your teams can produce tested and verified applications more quickly and with zero downtime.

<br/>

> Eliminate errors and risks associated with routine tasks
- It improves consistency, repeatability and verifiability throughout your operations. By reducing the risk of human error in common daily tasks, automation gives you predictable and repeatable processes for managing configurations to improve consistency, speed changes and increase uptime.

-  The goal is to increase the speed and reliability of software delivery by reducing manual intervention and promoting alignment between development and operations teams. DevOps automation tools can speed up delivery cycles by reducing human error and bottlenecks, which can result in shorter feedback loops. This increased efficiency can apply to the entire process, from the most recent code committed to a repository to the final release and delivery of an application or service upgrade. 

- DevOps automation can also augment DevOps monitoring principles, such as logging, alerting, tracing, auditing, and monitoring. 